# RandomMolR
Random scripts for molecular data edition in R:<br/><br/>
biogeobears2simmap creates a simmap object from the output of stochastic character mapping with BioGeoBears.<br/><br/>
BPPformat creates a sequence file in BPP format based on a concatenated FASTA alignment and a partitions file in raxml format.<br/><br/>
collapse_conStruct is used to edit the input files used by conStruct (https://github.com/gbradburd/conStruct) by collapsing localities that are geographically close to each other based on a distance threshold and updating the allele frequency, coordinate, and geographic distance matrices accordingly.<br/><br/>
CreateIndLoc splits a concatenated FASTA alignment into individual locus alignments based on a partitions file in raxml format.<br/><br/>
DartPart takes a genlight object (such as that used in dartR: https://github.com/green-striped-gecko/dartR) and creates a partitions file in raxml or nexus format. Optionally, it writes files with the individual alignments of each locus.<br/><br/>
GBclean shortens the names of sequences downloaded from GenBank in a somewhat flexible way.<br/><br/>
KeepFromCorrs will get you independent characters/loci from a correlated dataset. Often you want to keep characters/loci that are independent from each other, deleting those that are tightly correlated. Often you will want to keep as many characters as possible. Let's say trait1 and trait2 are correlated, trait2 and trait3 are correlated, but trait1 and trait3 are not correlated. If you delete trait2 you can keep the other two. Then maybe you would like to keep those characters/loci that are more informative, or have fewer missing data. This can be hard to do when you have many characters/loci. This function makes your life easier, it returns a vector with the names of the characters to keep from a set of correlated variables. The function tries to keep as many independent traits/characters as possible, and then it can optionally choose among pairs of variables using a criterion.<br/><br/>
KeepFromGraphs is similar to KeepFromCorrs but more stringent, it uses graphs to delete groups of correlated variables. Let's say trait1 is correlated to trait2, trait2 is correlated to trait3, and trait1 and trait3 are uncorrelated. Because 1 is connected to 3 through their mutual correlation with 2, the three loci will be considered as part of a group of correlated variables. Among groups, you would probably like to keep the character/locus that is more informative, or has fewer missing data. This function returns a vector with the names of independent characters to keep from a set of correlated variables and optionally a list with the groups of correlated variables.<br/><br/>
seattleR is an R version of SeATTLE (Sequence Alignment Transformation into a Table for Later Edition), which takes a concatenated FASTA alignment and a partitions file to give you a data frame in which columns correspond to loci. Among other things, this table can be used as input for phrynomics (https://github.com/bbanbury/phrynomics/) to extract and manipulate SNPs.<br/><br/>
TerGaps2N replaces terminal gaps with a symbol denoting missing data (e.g. N or ?) in a FASTA alignemnt. This is useful when downstream analysis involves software that distinguishes between gaps and missing data. It also makes it easier to look for undesired internal gaps.<br/><br/>
